#  C/C++ Template Project with Automake and Autoconf Generator

> Yeoman generator for Automake Autoconf C/C++ Project for "Automake C++ Tutorial" - lets you quickly set up a C/C++ project with Automake and Autoconf.

This is a template project which I used in the "Automake C++ Tutorial" at http://youtu.be/7hBag3hr0xU

## Quick Installation

Install `yo`, `grunt-cli`, `bower` and `generator-c-c-plus-plus-project`:
```
npm install -g grunt-cli yo bower generator-c-c-plus-plus-project
```

## Usage

Make a new directory, and `cd` into it:
```
mkdir my-new-project && cd $_
```

Run `yo c-c-plus-plus-project`:
```
yo c-c-plus-plus-project
```

## Variables the generator uses ##

* **generatorModuleName:** Module Name. The generator will try to generate a proper name with dashes from this name.
* **generatorModuleNameWithDashes:** (Generated but can be changed) Derived name from module name, used as your module's name in configure.ac and as the entry cpp file in src directory.
* **generatorModuleDescription:** Module Description. Goes into README.md of your project.
* **generatorUserEmail:** Your email. Goes into AUTHORS file and all the copyright notices in your source files.
* **generatorUserName:** Your name. Goes into AUTHORS file and all the copyright notices in your source files.

## Questions that the generator asks ##

* **'What is your module's name ?':** sets 'generatorModuleName'
* **'What is your module's dasherized name ? Will use this as the main module name':** sets 'generatorModuleNameWithDashes'
* **'What is your module's description ?':** sets 'generatorModuleDescription'.
* **'What is your email ?':** sets 'generatorUserEmail'.
* **'What is your name ?':** sets 'generatorUserName'.

# Detailed Explanation #

You can clone this template project to jump start your project with a automake/autoconf based build system.
It has the basic ingredients, so all you need is to replace the libraries and main file with your own code
while modifying the Makefile.am's and configure.ac's with the names of your files.

In order to make everything work, once you clone this directory, go the root of project, and type:
```
> aclocal

> autoconf

> automake --add-missing
```
This should create all "configure" script along with all the Makefile's. Now, you can type
```
> ./configure

> make
```
And your project should compile. Now you are all set with a lean template to build upon.
Good Luck!

## Scaffolding Explained ##

In this section, we describe what each file does in this template and how you can modify them to your needs.

### Directory Structure ###

Once everything is installed, you will see a project structure like below:

```
├── Gruntfile.js                                      # File of magic. All grunt tasks are in here.
├── README.md                                         # This very file. Gets overwritten by Grunt.
├── README.md.copy                                    # Copy of this file. Does not get overwritten.
├── README.md.html                                    # HTML version of README.md. Generated dynamically from README.md.
├── README.md.template                                # Template file for generating README.md dynamically.
├── dist                                              # Distribution files. Gets generated by Grunt.
│   ├── <pkg name>.<pkg version>.standalone.js        # Browserify output of your module.
│   └── <pkg name>.<pkg version>.standalone.min.js    # Minimized version of the browserify output.
├── docs                                              # Documentation directory. Gets generated dynamically by Grunt.
├── jsdoc.conf                                        # JSDoc configuration file. JSDoc is used for documentation generation.
├── package.json                                      # NPM package.json file.
├── src                                               # Source files for your module.
│   ├── dummy.js                                      # Dummy js. Provided as an example js file.
│   └── < pkg name>.js                                # Entry file to your module. Add your own code here.
└── test                                              # Directory for test related files.
│   ├── index.html.template                           # Template index HTML file for browser tests. No need to modify this.
│   ├── output                                        # Directory for unittest outputs.
│   │   ├── browserified_tests.js                     # Your unittests bundled into one mega file to be tested on the browser.
│   │   ├── coveragereport.html                       # Coverage report for all of your unittests.
│   │   ├── index.html                                # Dynamically generated file from index.html.template. Don't modify.
│   │   └── output.txt                                # Output of your unittest run from node.
│   └── unittests                                     # Unittests directory. Add your unittests here.
│   │   └── dummy-test.js                             # Dummy js unittest. Provided as an example.
│   │   └── <pkg name>-test.js                        # Unittest for your entry file.
```

## 'projectparams' section of Gruntfile.js ##

This section has all the parameters necessary to run the scaffolding correctly. You can change these parameters according to your project's specifics.

Description of the variables in projectparams:

* **banner_for_production:** The first line for both the browserified output file and the minimized version.
* **docs_dir:** (Generated) Directory for the docs.
* **dist_dir:** (Generated) Directory for the distribution files.
* **minimized_output_file:** Minimized browserified output file of your library.
* **output_file:** Final browserified output file of your library.
* **readme_md_html_file:** (Generated) README.md.html file name.
* **readme_md_template:** README.md.template file name.
* **readme_md_text_file:** (Generated) README.md file name.
* **src_dir:** Directory where source files are located.
* **test_dir:** The root test directory. 'index.html.template' is assumed to be here.
* **unittests_also_to_be_browsertested:** List of unittests also to be run in the browser.
* **unittests_browsertest_index_html:** 'index.html' file for browser unittests.
* **unittests_browsertest_index_html_template:** 'index.html.template' file name.
* **unittests_browsertest_results_file:** (Generated) Browser unittest run reports.
* **unittests_coverage_report_file:** (Generated) Coverage reports for unittests.
* **unittests_dir:** Directory where the unittests are.
* **unittests_output_dir:** (Generated) Unittest output reports will be written here.
* **unittests_text_output_file:** (Generated) Node unittest run reports.

# License

[Apache 2.0 License](LICENSE.md) - &copy; 2015 Baris Yuksel

# Bugs, Requests and Support #

For bug reports, feature requests and general questions, please feel free to email baris@onehundredyearsofcode.com
